---
layout: post
title:      "Making the Move"
date:       2020-07-09 14:28:59 +0000
permalink:  making_the_move
---


   Data has always been something that supplements another part of a process for me. My first introduction to data, is like most others, was set threory in mathematics. None of this data really matters in this respect, just the transformations and applications of certain theory. Mathematics came naturally to me, (thankfully!) and I continued in mathematics throughout high school. 
	 Fast forward to my undergraduate classes in Economic theory, and data became much more relevant. But still, this data was being used as a means to an end, your questions were never derived directly from the data itself. Many economics theories are conveyed visually through graphical representation, and this is what I was able to latch onto throughout the rest of my undergraduate career, ultimately culminating in a data-driven monetary policy presentation given to the NY Federal Reserve for my senior thesis, containing regression analysis, visualizations, and business impact discussions. 
	 A major change came for me in graduate school. I attended the Levy Institute in Annandale-on-Hudson NY in the fall of 2018, hoping to master Monetary Theory, and only attended for two weeks before withdrawing from the program. 
	 I had always coasted through economics in my undergraduate classes, but when starting at the Levy Institute, it all came crashing down. Why was this? What made this type of learning so vastly different than what I had experienced before? I had always loved economics, and now it seemed inaccessible and foreign to me. I felt like I was falling out of love with my career, something that devastated me at the time. My enrollment at the Levy Institute felt more like philosophy than economics, containing many abstract concepts that couldn't be easily conveyed graphically. Feeling like my future was slipping away from me, I withdrew from the program and began a job at a local credit union as a customer service rep. Call center. 
	 While my time at this call center was not the most exciting, I learned what made me love my undergraduate classes so much more than my breif trist with graduate school. It was the data, the visualization, the story that data tells and the answers that we can so quickly glean from data. Helping customers over the phone with their checkbooks, and showing them how data works and affects their day to day lives showed me that not only was it the data that I fell in love with, it was explaining the data too.
	 After a few months of working at this call center, I knew that I wanted to move away from the customer service aspect of my role, and move towards the more data-driven parts, conversing with coworkers on data rather than with customers. And this is where my data science journey started. I began taking online classes through Codecademy, working through their data science career path, and thoroughly enjoyed myself. After completing their coursework I knew that the next step was to enroll in an accredited institution, which brought me to FlatIron School. 
	 I write this not to just tell my story, but to show how many failures one might have before learning what they love. I never knew that it was data that I loved until recently, I had always thought that my life would begin and end in monetary policy and more economic heavy realms. Yet here I am, beginning this data science journey, and endlessly excited for where it will take me. 
	 
